---
name: Ko Takeuchi
---
Ko Takeuchi joined the World Bank in 2013 and currently works as a Senior Specialist on Urban Development and Disaster Risk Management, leading the Community of Practice in the Urban, Resilience, and Land Department on Resilient Infrastructure and Buildings. Prior to his current role, he worked as a Senior Specialist on Urban Development and Disaster Risk Management for the Africa region leading disaster risk management and urban resilience engagements. He led the World Bank’s disaster risk management engagements in Ethiopia, Sudan, Rwanda, and Uganda, and coordinated overall disaster risk management technical assistance support in the Sub-Saharan Africa region. Prior to his assignment in Africa, he led the disaster risk management engagements in Central Asia and has experience working in other countries, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Armenia, Albania, Serbia, and Georgia. Topics covered in his disaster risk management engagement include urban resilience, seismic risk reduction and safer schools, flood risk management, hydromet and early warning systems, nature-based solutions, resilient transport, emergency preparedness and response, disaster risk financing and insurance, landslide risk management, and post-disaster recovery and reconstruction. Prior to joining the World Bank, he worked on urban risk reduction and city resilience programs at UN-Habitat. He also has experience in various schemes of disaster risk management and urban development as a JICA Expert and international engineering consultant including, project identification, master plan formulation, feasibility studies, and project management consultancy. He holds a master’s degree from the University of British Columbia on urban and regional planning. He is a Japanese national and holds a certificate as an Associate Professional Engineer in the field of construction and other certificates on disaster risk management and architecture/housing in Japan.